**Preamble**

DECARD Services GmbH has developed software, a distributed network
consensus, transaction and database system that can be utilized for data
formatting, communication, consensus, transaction, and storage
protocols. The Software is generic in its use and is therefore suited
for individual licensing.

DECARD Services GmbH has decided to license certain parts of its
software under this free and grant back License.

Any use of the Software or source code or any New Versions under this
License shall not impose any liability of any kind on DECARD Services
GmbH or any other Licensor as the Software and source code is granted
for free.

Any use of the Software under this License is thus at the risk of the
Licensee.

***Your use of any Software released under this License obligates you
to: Grant back and make public any improvements, modifications, and bug
fixing you have made to the Software. You are also obligated to publish
any documentation of the improvements, changes/modifications and bug
fixing. Your use of the Software/New Versions for commercial purpose is
subject to compliance with the threshold stated below. You publish the
Software/source code as detailed below.***

**TERMS AND CONDITIONS**

**1. Definitions.**

"Licensor" refers to DECARD Services GmbH and any Licensee who
subsequently publishes a New Version or a Combined Software under this
License.

"License" refers to this free and grant back DECARD Services GmbH
License.

"The Licensee" or "You" refers to the person or legal entity that
downloads the source code or the Software and makes use of it/modifies
it and subsequently makes it available to the public/operates the
Software/distributes the Software.

"Combined Software" means software that consists of all or part of the
Software and software created or released by someone other than
Licensor. Combined Software shall be treated as Software for the purpose
of this License.

"Copyright" means copyright laws that apply to and protect software.

"Computer Program" is called software within the meaning of this
License.

"Software" refers to software published by Licensor under this License
or any New Version of the same, including Combined Software.

A "New Version" means a modified version of the Source Code or the
Software.

To "Propagate" the Software means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it or
having it executed on a hardware device for your own internal purpose or
modifying a private copy. Propagation includes copying, distribution
(with or without modification), making available to the public, and in
some country's other activities as well.

To "Distribute" the Software means any kind of distribution to the
public regardless of media or form that enables other parties to make or
receive copies of the Software or the Source Code, modified or not.

To "Modify" or "Modification to" the Software means any changes to the
Source Code, including but not limited to improvements, bug-fixes,
changes, and optimizations.

**2. Source Code.**

The "Source Code" for the Software means the code needed for making
modifications to the Software. "Object code" means any non-source form
of the Software.

**3. Permissions.**

The Licensee shall, subject to the timely fulfilment of its obligations
contained in this License and the conditions contained herein, be
granted a royalty free right to undertake:

> the permanent or temporary reproduction of the Software by any means
> and in any form, in part or in whole including loading, displaying,
> running, transmission or storage of the Software necessitate such
> reproduction.
>
> the translation, adaptation, arrangement and any other alteration of
> the Software and the reproduction of the results thereof,
>
> any distribution to the public, except for renting the original
> Software or its copies, unless otherwise permitted elsewhere in the
> License.

All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of the
copyright on the Software and are irrevocable, provided that the
conditions/obligations in this License are fulfilled by the Licensee.

This License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run and use
the Software for all purposes supported by the Software.

The granting of the aforementioned rights is conditional upon your
simultaneous publication of the New Version and the corresponding source
code under this License, alongside making it easily available for
download, along with a detailed description of the alterations made,
during your own use (internal or external) or distribution.

If you intend to use the Software for commercial purposes, the granting
of the aforementioned rights is additionally conditional on your
compliance with both of the following thresholds:

1.  The annual turnover of the person(s) or entity or entities making
    the Software (including Combined Software) (direct or indirectly)
    available to the public must not exceed Euro 1,000,000.

2.  The annual licensee and/or support and maintenance fee paid for the
    use of the Software/New Versions (including Combined Software) must
    not exceed Euro 500,000. This threshold applies to both internal
    (including inter-company) and external payments or a value transfer
    that substitutes an actual payment if the internal use in a group of
    companies if provided for free and this does not constitute market
    terms.

If, at any time, you exceed either or both of the above thresholds, You
are required at once to obtain a commercial license from DECARD Services
GmbH, allowing for the continued use of the Software.

This involves paying the at that time applicable license fee for:

a\) The entire duration during which You exceed one or both of the
thresholds.

b\) The remaining period for which You continue using the Software/New
Versions.

You may provide the download of the modified Software/source code from a
space of your own or you may make a change request to the space where
you originally downloaded the source code (the original or a later
modified version) with a specification of the changes made to the source
code, so that it is easy to modify again.

*Combined Software:*

You may create Combined Software with the use of the Software including
New Versions provided however that you include this License in your
license for the Combined Software and comply with the obligation to
publish the Software and Source Code with a detailed description of the
modifications, if any, that you have made to the Software.

The same obligation to make public /grant back applies for any other
source code that allows the Software/New Version to integrate/interact
with other parts of the Combined Software, if this is not done as a
modification to the Software.

The above permissions including the above mentioned thresholds also
applies to the use of Combined Software.

**4. License fee.**

You may charge a license fee for Combined Software and for copies of the
Software/New Versions or use of the Software or any New Versions as long
as you comply with the above threshold.

You are also allowed to charge consultancy fees for assisting with the
use and implementation of the Software (including Combined Software) or
any New Versions, and you may also offer support or warranty protection
for a reasonable fee, as long as You comply with the above thresholds.

**5. No Surrender of Others\' Freedom.**

If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot comply
with the obligation to publish as to satisfy your obligation under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, including not charging a
fee, then as a consequence, you may not use, operate, run or propagate
the Software or the Combined Software at all.

**6. Disclaimer of Warranty.**

THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE SOFTWARE/SOURCE CODE, TO THE EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING
LICENSOR PROVIDE THE SOFTWARE/SOURCE CODE AND NEW VERSIONS "AS IS"
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE/SOURCE CODE/NEW VERSIONS IS WITH YOU. SHOULD
THE SOFTWARE/SOURCE CODE/NEW VERSIONS PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY WAY, YOU
ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION AND
PROTECTION.

**7. Limitation of Liability.**

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE/SOURCE CODE/NEW VERSIONS (INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES
SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE SOFTWARE IN OBJECT
CODE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARES OR ANY CYBER CRIME ATTACKS OR
HACKS DUE TO ANY DEFICIENCIES IN THE SOFTWARE/SOURCE CODE/NEW VERSIONS),
EVEN IF THE LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

**8. Interpretation of Sections 6 and 7.**

If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above
cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing
courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute
waiver of all civil liability in connection with the Software, unless a
warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a copy of the Software
in return for a fee.

**9. Applicable law and dispute resolution**

This License and any dispute, controversy proceedings or claim of
whatever nature arising out of or in any way relating to this License,
its formation (including any non-contractual disputes or claims) and
Licensee's use of the Software (including Combined Software) and any New
Versions be governed by and construed exclusively in accordance with the
law of the State of the Licensor *without giving effect to any choice or
conflict of Law provision or rule.*

Any dispute arising out of or in connection with this License, including
any use of and access to The Software(including Combined Software) and
New Versions, or the need for a commercial license and payment of a
license fee, including any disputes regarding the existence, validity or
termination thereof, shall be settled before the Courts of the State of
the Licensor, who shall have exclusive Jurisdiction of the dispute.

Version 1.0 December 2023
